This is Pablo's CV:
Pablo Lopez Santori

Glasgow | +44 7851702981 | pablo.lopez.santori@gmail.com
linkedin.com/in/lopezsantoripablo | github.com/wanderdust | pablolopez.tech

As a Machine Learning Engineer with expertise in MLOps and data engineering
I have streamlined the process of extracting value from data and deploying models to
production. I have a track record of mentoring and managing interns, collaborating with non-technical
stakeholders to write initiative documents, and ensuring well-defined model requirements. My versatility is
demonstrated by my experience with NLP, deep learning models, DevOps, and front end technologies.

Work Experience

MLOps Engineer 01/2022 - today
Zonda Satellite, Glasgow (remote)
Built data engineering pipelines to transform raw data in Snowflake into clean data, which was
then materialised to a MongoDB online store using Airflow, DBT, Terraform and AWS batch. By
having automation and observability it allowed the team to focus on building products while the
pipelines periodically updated the data, enabling faster value extraction from the data by the Data
Science team.
Built infrastructure to streamline the model deployment to production using AWS CodePipeline for
CI/CD, Sagemaker and MLFlow and deployed an average of one model per quarter.
Deployed machine learning models as APIs using FastApi, AWS Lambda, ElasticBeanstalk and
Terraform with automatic documentation to enable other teams to easily integrate the models.
Setup a monitoring server using Grafana to track internal infrastructure including API performance
and data pipelines execution. By implementing alerts, I facilitated the team in promptly identifying
and resolving any latency issues or a high number of 400/500 errors.
Managed and mentored an intern working on a project involving GANs and Stable Diffusion
models for 3D object generation.

Collaborated extensively with the Product team to ensure that model requirements were well-
defined, and regularly communicated progress and insights to non-technical stakeholders. On top

of this I also coordinated with my team to ensure timely completion of critical tasks.

Machine Learning Engineer 11/2020 - 01/2022
Zonda Satellite, Glasgow (remote)
Improved construction activity tracking from satellite imagery using MaskRCNN in PyTorch,
Docker and Python, from 0.3 to 0.7 MAP score by using image transforms, using augmentations,
tuning hyper parameters, experimenting with the loss function, using ensemble models and
labelling new data.
This improvement lead to saving thousands by enabling tracking construction activity from
satellite imagery rather than having to send drivers to construction sites across the USA.
Implemented a novel image over-sampling technique to prevent overfitting during training by
breaking down images in the dataset into 8x8 squares containing features and generating new
images by combining squares from every image. MLFlow was used to track experiments and
easily collaborate with the team.
Deployed deep learning models to AWS batch to run offline predictions. All of the model
repositories were deployed using Docker and CI/CD with Terraform and AWS CodePipeline.
Built front end applications using React and Dash as a way to showcase the models to non
technical stakeholders in an engaging and interactive way.
Conducted multiple tech Retrospectives and tech Stand-ups and refined the team's project
management process by introducing KANBAN methodology, enabling more flexibility and
reducing time spent on planning by eliminating strict time-boxed sprints.

Data Science Internship 06/2020 - 08/2020
UserTesting, Edinburgh (remote)
During my Data Science Internship at UserTesting, I developed an unsupervised model using
NLP as part of my master's dissertation. This model successfully flagged participants who
answered screener questions inconsistently, which contributed to the improvement of overall data
quality and increased the efficiency of the research process.

Education

MSc Artificial Intelligence with Speech and Multimodal Interaction 08/2019 - 08/2020
Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh, Scotland
This MSc provided me with valuable knowledge and skills in the field of Natural Language
Processing, Understanding and Generation. During my studies, I built a multimodal chatbot using
Furhat for the bot’s interface, Rasa for Natural Language Understanding, and Neo4J for the data
mapping. In this project, I also created a dataset and trained an LSTM model for next word
prediction. Through this project, I gained hands-on experience in building reliable AI assistants
with natural human-like interactions, which has been instrumental in my understanding of the
challenges in this field.

Degree in Commerce 08/2011 - 06/2016
Complutense University of Madrid
Acquired a strong understanding of business strategy that allows me to effectively position and
communicate the value of an ML project to stakeholders.
Worked as a Sales Executive in Mygon (Lisbon) gaining skills in persuasive communication, able
to influence and persuade others to adopt new tools, processes, or workflows.

Other

Speaker on EdAI: Edinburgh’s Meet-Up for AI Builders 02/2023
At this event I spoke about Generative AI and Stable Diffusion Models to a mixed audience of technical
and non-technical people at CodeClan.
Patents and Publications: “Systems and methods of property valuation” 08/2022
Co-inventor of "Systems and methods of property valuation" patent, demonstrating expertise in real estate
valuation and innovative problem-solving abilities.

Projects

CV Chatbot
https://pablolopez.tech/
The project is a CV Chatbot that uses OpenAIs GPT3 model to answer questions about Pablo's CV. The model API is deployed in
AWS using Terraform, and AWS Lambda, with its only cost being the OPENAI API.
Buy Me a Coffee using web3
https://buymeacoffee-dapp.netlify.app/
Developed app that leverages blockchain technology to facilitate small donations via a smart
contract on the Ethereum Blockchain using Next.js and Hardhat.
Playing Atari games with Reinforcement Learning
https://git.io/fjxDS
Implemented a Deep Q-Learning algorithm with Experience Replay, Fixed Q-Targets and Dueling
Networks using PyTorch, which enabled an agent to learn how to play the game.
Mongol Rally
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=unkb7_9e-EM
I participated in the Mongol Rally in 2016. A 16,000 km road trip from Madrid to Mongolia. We raised 1k for the charity
APIC pandora.

Hobbies

I enjoy reading. Particularly long fantasy sagas such as "A song of Ice and Fire", "The Gentleman Bastards", 
"The Stormlight Archive" or "The King Killer Chronicles" amongs others. My favorite book is "Bajo los cielos de
asia" by Iñaki Ochoa de Olza.
I also enjoy building software projects such as this website or BillyBot and playing tennis.
